Well, we still got some
more components to make.
So before we can actually make
the form for the off page and stuff,
we need a button, we need an input,
we need some more of that stuff.
So let's do that.
So we're gonna make a button component.
So we go into components and make a new
file called Button.tsx const button
And we're just gonna
default export this button.
And it's just gonna be
like a generic UI button.
But this one's gonna use some more
advanced CSS stuff that I've been kind
of using it which is kind of cool.
It allows you to set different
variants for components based off
the props that are passed in,
which I think is really cool.
And this is something
that I was looking for.
I was trying to figure out how to do,
because if you don't have something this,
you end up doing errors
everywhere in a class name.
To toggle classes on or off,
depending on the value of a property,
which to me is very sloppy and cloudy.
So we can use a combination of
this tool that you'll see and
other ones to allow our button to
have different variations very easily
without us having to figure out
the conditionals ourselves.
So that's what we're gonna do.
But first, let's just make our button.
So if you look down here, it's really just
a button that just renders its children.
It's nothing special.
So we'll start there.
Let's do that.
So this thing takes children,
and renders a button.
So we'll start there,
very simple and conspicuous.
And then because we're going to have
different types of buttons, we're going to
have like a primary button, a big button,
a small button, form submit button.
We have to expose those changes
as props so we can toggle,
you don't change them if we pass them in.
And that's where this CVA comes in.
It's such a weird name and
I'll explain it in a minute.
So we're going to import CVA, and
we're gonna call it various props.
This is for TypeScript.
Actually, let's get the autocomplete from.
Class variance authority.
So why is it called class
variance authority?
The person that made it love that show the
Loki show on Disney where I don't know if
anyone has ever seen that show, where
it's like they were like the variance
authority or something like that so
that's why he called it that.
And it's for classes.
So he's put the word class in front of it.
That's literally why it's called that.
It's so weird.
And then he couldn't get the the package
name called CVA because there's
already a package name called CVA,
and the guy wouldn't give it to him,
so he just had to spell it out.
So that's why it's called it.
It looks so official.
It looks like the government
made this package, but it's not,
it's just some random guy who really likes
that Loki show and couldn't get CVA.
So yeah, cuz I went down a rabbit hole,
I was like, what is this?
Why are we doing this?
So that's why it's that.
And then, yeah, we'll import FC for
types from, From types for React.
All right, so what we wanna do
here is actually quite powerful.
So what you do is you can use
CVA to define some default
classes that get applied to
every button in this array.
And then what you can say is like,
all right, I'm going to make some variants
of this button, and you can say,
if I want a prop called intent.
So my button's going to
take a prop called intent.
And if the value of intent is primary,
apply these classes.
If the value of intent is secondary,
If the value of intent is text,
apply these classes and
that's on top of the default classes.
And then the same thing is down here.
I wanna make a prop called size.
If the value of size is small, apply these
classes so forth, so forth, so forth.
And then here is the default variance
if someone doesn't pass one at.
So this is literally the same thing if you
went and just hit turn area everywhere.
If prop dot size equals small,
like, it gets so sloppy.
So we're gonna do this.
And really, if you were looking at CVA,
it's just a function that just concatenate
strings, it doesn't do anything.
It's just like a string
manipulation library.
It has nothing to do with React or
classes.
It just combined strings,
which is really all you need.
So let's do that.
So we'll say button classes
is CVA with NRA like that,
those are default classes like that and
then we need to make some variants
So we'll say variants, and then for
the variants, I'm gonna have intent.
And I'm gonna have one called primary.
And for primary,
I wanna apply these primary classes, so
background-violet, text-blue,
border-transparent.
These are all Tailwind classes.
And this is why I think Tailwind
shines when you do it like this.
You can make a whole component live
like this with CVA and Tailwind,
maybe pretty cool cuz I would not wanna
write all of these inside of JSX,
plus turners, plus if statements,
I just don't wanna do it.
So we got that, and then for
secondary we're gonna have these.
So intent is secondary at these.
So instead of being a purple
button it's a white button.
And then at the text is or
the intent is text,
then It's just basically transparent.
And then last one is the ability
to manipulate the size.
So I can go down here and say okay, I
want to know the property called size and
the value of small.
I want to apply these classes.
So text medium y-1 which
means padding y-1 on both,
which I think is actually two pixels.
I don't know Tailwind's number.
And then for
medium I'm gonna apply these classes.
Pass in medium button, And for large,
I want to pass in these classes.
And lastly,
we just need a default variance.
So default variance.
Let's just have the intent
default to primary and
we'll have the size default to medium
Here comes the magic.
So what we can do with that is mix
it in with some TypeScript magic and
create an interface that extends
basically an HTML element.
That's what this HTML button element.
And we can derive the type of
all these variants by using
typeof inside the variant
prompts as a generic.
So this is something you
can do in TypeScript.
Is you can do typeof and
TypeScript will derive a type
from that which is really cool.
So I'll just come down here and do that.
You don't actually have to
put anything in here for
these prompts unless you have some other
props that this button is going to
take that are unrelated to
things that change the classes.
You can you can define them here.
But note that things like unclick type,
all that stuff is already part
of the HTML button element.
So it's probably already there.
So let's do some custom prop.
That's not already part of a button.
That doesn't have anything
to do with style,
then you don't need to add anything here.
But if there was, you would add it here.
Okay, and then from there,
I prefer to type check my components
like this using functional component.
Some people like to do it
after the object here.
I'm gonna do it here beforehand.
So I'm gonna say FC, and
then I'm gonna say ButtonProps, like that.
So now we got our ButtonProps.
And lastly, we just gotta apply them.
So to do that, we can go to the button,
we can say className We
can say button class.
Is that what I called them?
Button classes.
Button classes like that.
And then we've got to
just pass in our props.
So we can map the intent and the size and
the class name that we destructure.
And then we can just spread over
the rest of the props, right?
So we'll get the intent.
And you can see it's auto completing
because we passed the props,
the size, and what was the other one?
Size, intent.
Size.
It's another one.
Yeah, class name, duh.
And then we can just do that here.
We can say this is the intent,
this is the size, here's the class name.
And then just spread over these props,
the rest of them.
Which I did not name, so let's do that.
Cool.
So I think this is a really good system to
build out UI components using Tailwind or
class-based styling, in my opinion.
Which if you use Next.js 13,
you can't use component libraries like
Chakra because they don't
work on server components.
So you're kinda stuck with class-based
styling for now, for the most part.
And, Tailwind's amazing.
So, yeah.
>> Mark.
>> You have any opinion on whether prop
types should be defined as type aliases,
or interfaces?
>> I don't have an opinion.
I've always done them as interfaces.
I don't know the differences between using
them as a type alias, or an interface.
For me, I've always used them as
interfaces because I think when that
transition period happened from like class
based components to functional components.
Everybody was using interfaces so
it kind of just stuck with me, but
I feel like types might be a lot more
flexible and in that sense of making,
I can see if I was making
a component library,
I might use types because of the
flexibility of how you can extend them and
do unions and
things like that across types.
So it might be more flexible there,
but for the most part,
I'll just use interfaces.
>> When do we start to
bring in use client?
Is that going to be in the pages?
Or can we bring that into
components like this?
>> You can bring use
client whenever you want.
Can I probably put in a use client here?
Yeah, it works.
It's just a client component now, but
it'll still give you the same result.
It'll still show up on the page and
do its job.
But just like if you've watched
the v2 course of Intro to XJS,
I mentioned in there that unless you're
doing some type of DOM only API,
some type of state management,
some typeof, mostly that like a hook or
something, you should almost
never use the client component.
So looking at this button, you gotta ask
yourself is something happening here that
can only happen in the browser.
And that's the case,
you gotta use, use client.
But even then, you would probably
get an error on the server,
component if you tried to like
if this as a server component.
If I went into here and did window
like actually, if I went in here and
did window, it would just break.
Unless for some reason my node environment
was mocking window out which it might be.
So I think some of the newer
versions of node might do that.
But you get the point.
It won't work on the server, because you
tried to do something on the browser.
So I would say just always use a server
component until the server screams at you
or until something unexpected happens
you're like that's supposed to do this and
then it's like that should have
been a client component so
that way you don't have to think about it.
Let the framework tell you.